YOU DON’T KNOW ABOUT ME UNLESS YOU HAVE
read a book by the name of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. That book
was written by Mark Twain, and he holds the truths mainly. Not all
parts of the story are true, but most of it is. I don’t know anyone who
tells the truth all the time, except perhaps Aunt Polly or the Widow
Douglas or Tom Sawyer’s sister, Mary. These people are written about
in The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
That book ends like this: Tom and I find money that was stolen
and we are allowed to keep it. We become rich. We each have 6,000
dollars in gold. Judge Thatcher put the money in a bank for us, and we
can have a dollar a day. That is more money than a person can know
how to spend. The Widow Douglas took me into her home to live, but I did not
enjoy living in a nice house. I put on my old clothes and ran away and
was free and happy, but Tom Sawyer found me and said that if I wanted to join his club and be friends, I would have to return to live with
the widow. For this reason, I returned to live with her.
The widow cried over me and gave me new clothes to wear, but
I hated those new clothes. I felt too warm in them and I could not move
my arms and legs freely. When supper was being served, the widow
always rang a bell, and I had to come quickly. I was happier when I could
eat whenever I chose to, though this meant I had to make meals of the
bits of food other people had thrown away.
When I asked permission to smoke, the widow said, “No.” She
thought that smoking was a dirty habit and told me that I must not
smoke.
Her sister, Miss Watson, a woman who had never married and who
had no children of her own, came to live with her. She thought that she
could change me and make me a better person by educating me and
teaching me to spell. She worked with me for an hour until the widow
made her stop. Miss Watson complained about everything I did.
“Don’t put your feet up there, Huckleberry. Sit straight in your
chair. Why can’t you improve the way you act? Don’t be so disrespectful to those who are trying to correct you.”
Then, when she told me about hell and said that it was where
the bad people go when they die, I said that I wished that I was there already. She got angry when I said that, but I didn’t intend to make
her angry. All I wanted was a change; I wanted to go somewhere, any-where; I didn’t care where that was. Hell had to be better than the life
that I was forced to live.
Miss Watson said that it was sinful to talk that way. She lived in
a way that would allow her to go to heaven when she died. Well, I could
see no advantage in going to heaven if she was going to be there, so I
decided that I wouldn’t try for it. But I never said so because that would
only make more trouble.
Miss Watson told me more and more about heaven and how all the good people were going there. They would do nothing all day but
sing and sing forever. I didn’t think much of such a place, but I didn’t
say so. I asked her if she thought Tom Sawyer would go there, and she
said, “No! Never!” I was glad to hear that because I wanted to be where
Tom Sawyer was going to be. Miss Watson continued to complain
about my behavior, which made me feel unhappy and lonely. In the
evening, before we went to sleep, she said prayers for me. I went to my
room and sat in a chair and tried to think of something cheerful, but I
couldn’t. I felt so lonely that I wished I was dead. The stars were shining, and the wind moving the trees sounded as though it was whispering to me. I couldn’t understand what the wind was saying.
Far away in the trees I heard the kind of sound that a ghost makes
when it wants to tell about something but can’t make itself understood.
I became so sad and frightened that I wished that I had some company.
Then a small bug walked on my hand; I shook it off. The bug fell against
my candle and burned completely. I didn’t need anyone to tell me that
this was a bad sign which would bring me bad luck.
To try to change my luck, I stood up and turned around three times
and made a cross on my chest each time. Then I tied a thread around
some of my hair. But I didn’t really think that it would change my luck.
I didn’t know of any way to change the bad luck that comes from
killing a small bug.
I sat down again feeling very frightened. The house was very quiet. Everyone was asleep. Far away I heard a clock go boom—boom—boom—
12 times—midnight. Then all was quiet again. Soon I heard a quiet
“Me-yow! Me-yow!” outside my window. I answered, “Me-yow! Me-yow!”
as quietly as I could. Then I climbed out of my window onto the
porch roof. From the roof I jumped to the ground and walked slowly
among the trees. There was Tom Sawyer waiting for me. T o m S a w y e r ’ s C l u b
TOM AND I WALKED QUIETLY ALONG A PATH AMONG THE TREES.
When we passed near the Widow’s kitchen, I fell and made a noise.
We lay very still. Miss Watson’s black slave, Jim, was sitting in the
kitchen door. We could see him clearly because there was a light
behind him. He stood up and asked, “Who’s there?”
Jim stood listening, then walked toward us. We didn’t make a
sound. Then he stood where Tom and I were hiding and asked again,
“Who are you? I know that I heard something. I’ll just sit here until I
hear the noise again.”
Jim sat on the ground between Tom and me. He leaned against
the tree we were hiding behind. He almost touched my leg. My nose
began to feel uncomfortable and I wanted to rub it, but I dared not.
We sat quietly for a long time. Then Jim began to breathe heavily and
we knew that he was asleep. Very quietly, Tom and I stood up and
walked away.
Then Tom decided that we would need some candles. He also
wanted to play a trick on Jim. I said, “No, forget the candles. Jim’ll wake
up, and then the Widow will learn that I’m not in bed.”But Tom loved jokes and he loved danger. He walked quietly into
the kitchen and took three candles. He left five cents on the table
to pay for them. Then he walked quietly to Jim and took Jim’s hat off
his head and hung it on a tree nearby. Jim moved a little but he didn’t
wake up. Later Jim said that a ghost had played a trick on him and left
his hat on the tree as a sign.
Tom and I walked quickly into town where we could see only
three or four lights. Almost everyone was asleep. Near the town was a
big river, a mile wide, and very quiet at this time of night. Near the river
we found Joe Harper, Ben Rogers, and two or three other boys hiding.
We climbed into a small boat and traveled two and a half miles down
the river before we stopped the boat and went ashore.
Tom led us to some bushes where he made everyone promise to
keep his secret. He pushed aside the bushes and showed us a hole in the
hill. We lit our candles and used them to light our way through the hole
and into a large cave. Soon we came to a kind of underground room
where we stopped.
Tom said, “Now we’ll start our club and call it Tom Sawyer’s Club.
Everyone who wants to join has got to make a promise and write his
name in blood.”
Everyone was willing to do this. Tom wrote the program on a sheet
of paper and read it to us. All the boys had to promise that they would
never tell any of the club’s secrets. If they did, other members of the club
would kill them and would burn their dead bodies. Some boys thought
that it would be a good idea to also kill the families of the boys who told
club secrets. Tom added this to the promise. Then Ben Rogers said, “Huck Finn doesn’t have a family. How
can we let him join the club?”
“Well, he has a father,” said Tom Sawyer.
“Yes, he has a father, but you can never find him. A few years ago
his father would lay in the road, drunk from too much whiskey, but he
hasn’t been seen in this town for more than a year.”
The boys talked about this problem. They decided that I could not
join their club. I became very sad and felt like crying. Then I thought of a solution to my problem. “Miss Watson can be part of my family. You
can kill her if I tell any club secrets.”
Everyone agreed to this. I was able to join the club.
Each boy made a small cut in his finger with a pin to get blood
to write his name.
“What will we do in our club?” asked Ben Rogers.
“Oh, kill people and take their money,” said Tom.
“Must we always kill people?”
“Oh, certainly. Killing is what they do in all the stories that I
read,” said Tom. “We have to act just like they do in books. The people who wrote the books knew the correct way to do things.”
When that was decided, Tommy Barnes said that he wanted to go
home. We said that we would all go home and meet again the following week. At that time, we would plan whom we would steal money
from and kill.
When I got home, I climbed up onto the porch roof and in through
my window. My new clothes were wet and dirty with mud, and I was
very tired. H u c k i s D i s a p p o i n t e d
MISS WATSON WAS VERY ANGRY WITH ME IN THE MORNING BECAUSE
of the dirt on my clothes, but the Widow wasn’t. She was very sad and
unhappy, though, as she cleaned my clothes. Because I didn’t want her
to feel sad, I promised to be good and do things to make her feel proud
of me. Then Miss Watson told me to pray every day, and that whatever I asked for I would get. But my prayers weren’t answered. I talked to
the Widow about prayers and she said that my prayers would not be
answered with material things. She said that I must pray to help other
people, and that I was never to think about myself. I knew that she
meant that I would also have to pray to help Miss Watson.
I walked out into the woods and thought about this for a long
time, but I couldn’t see any advantage in that kind of life for me—all
the advantage would be for Miss Watson. I decided not to worry about
praying and being good anymore.
Pap hadn’t been seen by anyone during the previous year, and
that was fine with me. I didn’t want to see him again. When he wasn’t
drunk and could catch me, he would beat me, though I tried to hide
from him whenever he came to our town of St. Petersburg. Some people told me that he was found drowned in the Mississippi River about
twelve miles from town. They assumed that it was Pap because the
drowned man was his size and was wearing torn clothes and had unusually long hair. Not much was left of his face because the body had been
in the water a long time. They said that the body was floating on its
back in the water. I knew that the body couldn’t have been Pap because
a drowned man doesn’t float on his back; he floats on his face. The
body had been that of a woman dressed in men’s clothing. They buried
the body before I got to see it, but I was frightened knowing that Pap
might soon return to find me.
The boys in Tom Sawyer’s club came together for meetings but
we didn’t really steal money or kill anyone. We only imagined that we
were killing people and taking their money. Tom Sawyer did a lot of
fancy talking, but the rest of us did very little. After a while, I tired of
this game. I told Tom Sawyer that I didn’t find the game fun, and he
said that it was because I had no imagination. He said that if I read
more books, I would know of many famous people who had good
imaginations like his. H u c k a n d t h e J u d g e
THREE OR FOUR MONTHS PASSED, AND WINTER ARRIVED. I WENT TO
school almost every day and was learning to read and write and spell.
The teacher was also trying to teach me mathematics, but I knew even
if I studied forever, I would never learn mathematics.
At the beginning, I hated school very much, but after a while, I
hated it less. Whenever I began to hate school, I simply stayed away a
few days. The teacher would beat me when I returned, but the beatings didn’t trouble me. I had become accustomed to living in a proper
house with the Widow and sleeping in a proper bed. The Widow said
that I would become a good boy if I continued to study and to improve
my character and that she was no longer unhappy with me. My life
seemed to be improving.
Then one morning, while I was eating breakfast, I poured some
salt on the table. It was an accident. I knew that it was bad luck to accidentally pour salt and that the only way to get rid of the bad luck was
to throw some salt over my left shoulder. But Miss Watson stopped my
hand and shouted, “Take your hands away from that salt, Huckleberry.
You’ve already made the table dirty. Don’t make it dirtier.”I knew that I couldn’t stop the bad luck; it would follow me
always. I quickly left the table and ran out of the house. I was worried
and frightened. I knew that something bad was going to happen to me,
but I didn’t know where or when it would happen.
I walked through the front garden and climbed over a high fence.
Snow was on the ground, and I could see tracks made by a man’s
shoes in the snow. The tracks showed that the man had walked around
the garden fence, but had not come into the house. I bent down to
look closely at the tracks and discovered that the heel of one shoe had
left a mark that showed that it had a cross in it made with two nails.
I knew that someone had put this cross on the heel of his shoe to get
rid of bad luck.
I stood up quickly and was soon running down the hill. I looked
over my shoulder, but didn’t see anyone following me. I ran to Judge
Thatcher’s house as quickly as I could.
“Hello, Huckleberry, why have you been running? Did you come
to ask me about your money? Do you need a few dollars?”
“No, sir,” I answered. “Did the bank send you some money for me?
“Yes, more than 150 dollars. That’s a large amount of money. I would
like to keep it for you, together with your 6,000 dollars. If I give you all
the money now, you’ll only spend it on foolish things.”
“I don’t want to spend my money. I don’t even want it ever. Not
even the 6,000 dollars. I want you to have it. I want to give all my
money to you.”
The judge looked surprised. He couldn’t understand what I was
saying. “What do you mean?” he asked.
“Don’t ask me questions, please. Just take the money. You will—
won’t you?”
The judge said, “I’m puzzled. Is something wrong?”
“No,” I said, and walked away.
Miss Watson’s black slave, Jim, had a large hair ball that had
been taken from the stomach of an ox. Jim thought that the hair ball
had special powers. He said that it had the ability to tell what would
happen in the future. I went to Jim and told him about the tracks that I had seen in the snow. I told him that I knew that Pap was in town
again because I knew that he had made a cross with two nails in the
heel of his left shoe.
I wanted to know what Pap was planning to do. Would he stay
in St. Petersburg a long time?
Jim took his hair ball and said some words over it. Then he held
it up and dropped it on the floor. The hair ball rolled a short distance.
Jim did this several times, but the hair ball acted the same each time.
Jim put his ear against it and listened, but he heard nothing. He said
that the hair ball would not talk unless I gave him some money. I gave
Jim twenty-five cents, and he put the money under the hair ball. This
time the hair ball talked to Jim, and he told me what it said.
“Your Pap doesn’t know what he’ll do. Sometimes he thinks he’ll
go away and sometimes he thinks he’ll stay. The best plan is to stop
worrying and let your Pap do what he chooses. You’ll have much trouble in your life, but also much joy. Sometimes you’ll be hurt and sometimes you’ll be sick, but always you’ll be healthy.”
I returned to the Widow’s house that night. When I took my
lighted candle and went up the stairs to my room, Pap was sitting
there. H u c k ’ s F a t h e r
I CLOSED THE DOOR. I TURNED AROUND, AND THERE HE WAS. I EXPECTED
to be frightened of him now, but I wasn’t.
Pap was nearly fifty years old. His black hair was long and uncombed and dirty. He had allowed hair to grow on his face, and where
his skin showed, the skin was a sickly white. Just looking at the ugly
white skin made me feel sick. His clothes?—dirty and torn. His feet
showed through large holes in his shoes. His hat was on the floor—an
old black hat with a large hole in it.
I stood looking at him. He sat looking back at me. I put my lighted candle down. I noticed that the window was open; that’s how he
had come into the room.
“Clean clothes. New shoes. You think highly of yourself, don’t
you?” he sneered.
“Maybe I do and maybe I don’t,” I answered.
“Don’t talk to me in that tone. You’ve changed in many ways
since I have been away. I don’t like these changes. I heard that you go
to school. You think you’re better than your father because he can’t
read and write. Who gave you permission to go to school? Answer me.”“The Widow gave me permission. She told me to go to school.”
“The widow? Who gave the widow permission to tell my son
how to live? She’s not part of your family. She has no authority to tell you
anything.
“You stop going to school. I’m your father, and I don’t want you
to be better educated than I am. I don’t want to find you at that school
again. Your mother couldn’t read and she couldn’t write before she
died. No members of your family could read or write before they died.
And I don’t want you to be better than the other family members. If I
see you near the school again, I’ll beat you.”
He sat there looking angry. “I see that you’re now living in a
proper house and are wearing fancy clothes. You have a good bed to
sleep in while your father sleeps outside on the ground. People tell me
that you’re rich.”
“People lie to you.”
“Be careful what you say to me. I’ve been in this town for two
days and all the people tell me how rich you are. I heard about your
money when I was far away down the river. That’s why I am here. I
want your money. I want you to get it for me tomorrow.”
“I don’t have any money.”
“You’re telling a lie. Judge Thatcher has your money. Get the
money from him! I want it!”
“I don’t have any money. Please believe me. Ask Judge Thatcher.
He’ll tell you that I have no money.”“I’ll ask him tomorrow. I’ll force him to give me your money.
How much money do you have in your pocket?”
“I have only a dollar, and I want it to—”
“I don’t care why you want it. Give it to me now.”
Pap took the dollar and said that he was going into town to buy
whiskey. Then he climbed out the open window and onto the porch
roof. I heard him jump to the ground.
The next day, Pap was drunk and went to Judge Thatcher’s house.
He tried to force the Judge to give him my money, but the Judge refused.
Then Pap told Judge Thatcher that he would make the law force him.
The Judge and the Widow went to court and tried to force the law
to take me away from Pap and allow me to live with one of them. A
new judge, who did not know Pap, had arrived at the court. The new
judge said that the court must not separate a child from his father; so the Widow and Judge Thatcher didn’t succeed in their plan. Pap would
have authority over me, though I continued to live with the Widow. L i f e w i t h P a p
PAP AGAIN WENT TO COURT TO TRY TO FORCE JUDGE THATCHER TO
give him my money. He also tried to stop me from attending school.
When he saw me going to school, he would catch me and beat me. But
I continued to go to school, and tried to prevent Pap from seeing me.
I wasn’t happy going to school before, but now I went because I knew
that it made Pap unhappy. Some days I would ask Judge Thatcher for
two or three dollars, which I gave to Pap. He would buy whiskey with
the money and get very drunk and start fights with men in town.
Pap began coming to the Widow’s house to see me. She told him
to stay away or she would cause trouble for him. This made him very
angry. He told her that he had authority over his son and she couldn’t
tell him how he must act around his son, what he could and could not
do to me.
The next day, Pap caught me alone near the river. He pushed me
into a small boat, and we traveled three miles up the Mississippi. We
crossed to the Illinois shore to a place where there were many trees and
no houses. Pap took me to a small cabin made of logs. This cabin was
so hidden in the trees that no one could see it from the river. Pap stayed with me all the time, and I never had the opportunity to run away. Whenever Pap left the cabin, he would lock me inside
and take the key with him. At night, he slept with the key under his
pillow. He had a gun, which he had stolen, and we used it to hunt animals for our food. We also fished in the river. Every two or three days,
Pap took some fish to a store where he traded them for whiskey. When
he returned to the cabin, he would be very drunk and would beat me.
I didn’t like the beatings, but otherwise life with Pap wasn’t difficult. I
never had to do any work or any studying and could smoke whenever
I wished. We spent most of the time fishing or just sitting and watching the river. I never had to wash or put on clean clothes and could
sleep whenever I wanted. We ate our meals when we were hungry and
not when someone told us to.
Pap stayed away from the cabin often. Once he stayed away for
three days, and I was locked inside alone. I didn’t enjoy that. Whenever
Pap returned from a trip, he would be very drunk and beat me more and
more. When he was away for long periods of time, I began to worry that
he would never return. What would happen to me? I could die locked
inside the cabin. I began to think of a way to escape. I found an old dirty
saw that Pap didn’t know was in the cabin. With this tool, I began to
saw a hole through one of the logs in the wall behind my bed. I wanted
to make a hole large enough to climb through and escape. Making such
a hole was going to take a long time, and I worked at it whenever Pap
was out of the cabin. I kept the saw hidden while Pap was home. When
Pap would leave, I pushed the bed away from the wall and sawed at the
log. When I heard him returning, I hid the saw and pushed the bed
back to its normal position. Pap never knew about the hole that I was
making.
One day, Pap returned from a trip to the store feeling very angry.
He began to shout and knock furniture to the floor. His lawyer had
told him that he would never be able to force Judge Thatcher to give
him the money. He also said that he heard that the Widow Douglas
was again asking the court to take me away from him, and this time the
lawyer thought that the Widow would succeed. I knew that I did not want to return to living with the Widow. I
could never return to living in a proper house and going to school. I
had become accustomed to the type of life that Pap and I lived and I
didn’t want to change again.
Pap said that he would never allow the courts to take me away
from him. He would hide me in another cabin six or seven miles away,
and no one would ever find me. I began to worry. I knew that I had to
escape before we moved out of our present cabin.
Pap told me to go to his boat and bring the food and whiskey that
he had bought at the store. I carried one heavy load into the cabin and
returned for a second. I sat by the boat and thought about my problem.
Where would I go once I escaped from the cabin? I began to make a
plan; I would take Pap’s gun and walk through the forest as far as I could
go. I would walk mostly at night and would hunt animals for food. I
would travel far away, and neither Pap nor the Widow would find me
again. If Pap drank a bottle of whiskey and got very drunk, I would
complete the job of sawing through the log and could leave tonight.
That was my plan.
I finished unloading the boat and carried the last of Pap’s things
to the cabin. It was beginning to get dark and Pap was very angry
because I had taken a very long time to unload the boat. He shouted at
me to cook his supper. Then he drank some whiskey and began to shout
about the government.
“I hate this government and I hate its laws. The law wants to take
my son away from me—my very own son. I had all the trouble and all
the worry and all the expense of raising him, and now the government
wants to take him away from me. Now that my son is old enough to
work and give me money, the government wants to take that son away
from me. The law and the courts help Judge Thatcher to keep my son’s
money. I could be a rich man if the law would force Judge Thatcher to
give me the 6,000 dollars. I have to live in this dirty cabin and wear
old, torn clothes and eat food that pigs will not eat, all because the
government won’t force Judge Thatcher to give me my son’s money.”
Pap continued to shout about the government and the wrongs that it had done to him. Finally, he ate the supper that I had prepared
and drank some more whiskey. I expected him to be very drunk and
asleep soon, and then I would steal his key and unlock the door and
run away. Pap drank almost a complete bottle of whiskey, but he didn’t
go to sleep. He shouted and threw furniture against the walls and made
many loud noises like those an animal makes, but he didn’t sleep.
It was late at night, and I became very tired. I could no longer
keep myself awake. I don’t know how long I slept, but suddenly I heard
a loud scream and was awake. Pap looked wild and was running around
the cabin shouting about poisonous snakes that were attempting to
kill him. He was having a dream, but I had never seen him act this wild
before.
“Take the snakes off me! Take them off! They’re biting my neck!”
Pap screamed and threw chairs against the wall and knocked down the
table. He ran around the room, waving his knife in the air and threatening to kill me. He held onto my jacket and would have killed me
with his knife, but I slipped out of the jacket and ran away before his
knife cut me. Finally, he was too tired to move. He took a blanket and
wrapped it around himself and lay on the floor. He would cry quietly,
then shout, then would cry again. I had had many bad experiences
with him in the past, but nothing had ever been as bad as this. He
finally said that he was too tired to chase me anymore. He would sleep
and then would kill me in the morning when he felt stronger.
I knew that I had to protect myself. When Pap was asleep, I took
his gun and sat with it in my arms. I would shoot Pap if he awakened
and threatened me with his knife again. I didn’t sleep again that night. H u c k E s c a p e s
“STAND UP! WHY ARE YOU ASLEEP?”
I opened my eyes and looked around. I could see Pap standing
over me looking very angry—and sick, too.
“Why are you holding that gun?” he asked.
I knew that Pap had forgotten all that had occurred the night
before. I answered, “Someone tried to get into the cabin last night. I
took the gun to protect us.”
“You should have awakened me.”
“I tried. I really tried. I shook you, but you continued to sleep.”
“Don’t stand there talking all day. Go to the river to catch some
fish for breakfast. I’m hungry.”
Pap unlocked the door, and I walked along the river until I found
a good place to fish. I noticed many branches floating on the river. The
river was much deeper than it was normally and was flowing much
faster. Several large logs floated down the river. I became excited. What
else might I find?
Suddenly, I saw an empty canoe floating on the river. It was thirteen or fourteen feet long and in excellent condition. I jumped into the river and began to swim to the canoe. When I reached it, I jumped
in and rowed to shore. At first, I planned to give the canoe to Pap to
sell for ten dollars, but when I reached the shore, I couldn’t see Pap.
Then I had another idea. I would hide the canoe and use it to escape.
Instead of walking many miles through the forest to get away from Pap,
I would use the canoe to go fifty miles down the river to a place where
no one would be able to find me.
I hid the canoe in a small stream near the river, and covered it
with tree branches. I knew that Pap would not be able to find it. When
I returned to the cabin, Pap noticed my wet clothes. I told him that I
had fallen into the river. Then I cooked the fish for our breakfast.
After breakfast, Pap said that he would sleep awhile. I sat and
thought about my escape plan. I was troubled by one part of my plan.
I knew that when Pap discovered that I had escaped, he would begin
to search for me and I would always live with the fear of being found.
I needed to think of a new plan. Finally, an idea came to me. This new
plan would assure that no one would search for me.
At noon, Pap awoke and walked to the river. He called to me to
say that he saw a raft made of nine logs floating down the river. He
wanted to get the raft because he knew that he could sell the logs at
the store. We jumped into our boat and rowed out into the river. I
seized the rope tied to the raft and pulled the raft to shore.
Pap was eager to sell the logs to buy more whiskey. He locked me
in the cabin and said that he would slowly pull the raft down the river
to the store. I knew that this would take a long time and that he would
not return until the following day.
I quickly got my saw and moved my bed away from the wall. I
soon finished sawing the hole through the log wall and climbed through
to freedom. I carried bags of food from the cabin to my hidden canoe.
I also took blankets and dishes and pots and pans and everything else
that I thought might be useful. The last things that I took were Pap’s
gun and his ax. Then I pushed the piece of log back into the hole. I
didn’t want Pap to know how I had escaped.
I took Pap’s gun and walked into the forest to hunt for a wild pig. Soon I shot one and dragged it to the cabin. With the ax, I cut a large
hole in the front door. Then I dragged the pig into the cabin and cut
its throat. Blood poured out onto the floor.
Next, I got a large bag and filled it with rocks. I dragged this heavy
bag across the cabin floor, through the door, across the ground outside
the cabin, and all the way to the river. I threw the bag into the river
and watched it disappear in the deep water. Marks made by the sack
were left on the ground. Anybody looking at these marks would think
that they were made by dragging a dead body over the ground.
Night came and I was very tired. I sat in the canoe and waited for
the moon to rise. I smoked some tobacco and thought again about my
plan. When Pap returned and found the cabin empty and blood over
the floor, he would think that I had been murdered. He would assume
that my body was dragged across the ground and thrown into the river.
He might search for my body for awhile, but he wouldn’t suspect that
I was alive and therefore, wouldn’t attempt to find me.
The river was very wide, nearly a mile across to the far shore. The
moon was bright now, and I knew that it was time to begin my journey. I began to untie my canoe, when I heard a faint sound on the river.
I knew that it was the quiet sound made by a man rowing a boat. Could
Pap be returning? I had not expected him until the next day.
The boat came nearer; it was now close enough so that I could
have reached out and touched the man in it. It was Pap! I could see
him in the moonlight, but he couldn’t see me or my canoe because I
was hidden in the tree branches that grew out over the water. Pap
didn’t appear to be drunk.
I waited until Pap had rowed past me, then quietly moved my
canoe down the river. I stayed close to the shore so that I would be hidden by tree branches. When I became too tired to row, I lay in the
canoe and let it float gently down the river. As I lay there, I smoked
my tobacco and looked into the sky; not a cloud was in it. The sky
looks very deep when you lie down on your back in the moonlight. I
had never known this before.
A person can hear voices a long distance on such nights. I heard people talking on the far shore, and I could understand every word
they spoke. I heard one man say that it was three o’clock in the morning and daylight would come soon. As my canoe floated further down
the river with the current, the men’s voices became faint. Then all was
quiet again.
I sat up and could see Jackson’s Island far ahead of me. It was in
the middle of the river, large and dark and with many trees growing on
it. There were no lights on the island and no signs that anyone lived on
it. That’s where I planned to live.
I rowed the canoe to the edge of the island and hid it under some
tree branches. Then I sat quietly watching the river. The sky was beginning to turn gray. I knew that the sun would soon be in the sky. I found
a safe place under the trees and went to sleep. THE SUN WAS HIGH IN THE SKY WHEN I AWAKENED. I LAY IN THE GRASS
in the cool shade of some large trees. I felt very comfortable and planned
to wait before I cooked my breakfast.
While I lay under the trees, I heard the distant sound of a large
gun being shot across the water. I sat up and listened. I heard the sound
again. Then a third time. A large boat filled with people was traveling
on the river. I knew what they were doing; they were shooting the large
gun in an attempt to force my dead body to float to the top of the water.
I was now hungry, but it wasn’t a good time to build a fire to cook
my breakfast. The people on the boat might see the smoke. I sat there
watching them for a long time. The boat passed close to where I was
hiding, and I could see many people I knew—Pap, Judge Thatcher, Joe
Harper, Tom Sawyer, Tom’s Aunt Polly, and his brother Sid, and many
more. Everyone was talking about my murder.
The boat captain shouted, “Look carefully! The current flows
toward the island here. The river may have carried Huck’s body to the
edge of the island.”
All the people on the boat crowded to one side and watched the shore. I stayed hidden. They shot the big gun, and the noise made my
ears hurt. The boat floated on and was soon out of sight around the
island. I could hear the noise of the gun further and further away, and
then I didn’t hear the gun anymore.
The island was three miles long. When the boat came to the end
of the island, it turned and traveled up the other side. I crossed to that
side and watched it travel toward the far shore, and I knew that the
people were returning to their homes.
I was going to be safe now; no one would search for me again. I
carried my supplies from the canoe to a place under some large trees
near the center of the island. There, I made a tent out of my blankets
and put my supplies inside. I caught a fish, cleaned it with my knife,
and cooked it for supper.
When it was dark, I sat by my campfire smoking tobacco and feeling well satisfied. After a while, I became lonely and walked to the
edge of the island. I listened to the river current and counted the stars
in the sky. Then I counted the logs and rafts floating down the river.
There’s no better way to spend your time when you are alone. Soon
you lose that feeling of loneliness.
For three days and nights my life followed this pattern. Nothing
was different; each day I did exactly the same things. On the fourth
day, I explored the island. The whole island belonged to me, and I
wanted to know everything about it. I was also growing bored and
needed a change. I found grapes and other small fruit to eat. I carried
my gun and hoped to find an animal that I might kill for food.
I had walked a long way and knew that I must be near the end of
the island. Suddenly, directly in front of me were signs of a small campfire. Smoke was rising from the burned wood. My heart jumped. I held
my gun tightly as I slowly backed away. Quietly, I began the long walk
to my tent. I would walk a short distance, then stop to listen. I was so
frightened that I could hardly breathe. I knew that another person was
on the island with me.
When I reached my tent, I quickly gathered all my supplies and
carried them to my canoe. Then I scattered the bits of burned wood from my fire. When I was satisfied that I had left no signs of my camp,
I climbed a tall tree and looked around. I stayed in the tree for two
hours, but could neither see nor hear anything. I couldn’t stay in that
tree forever and finally, climbed down. I stayed hidden most of the day
and listened for sounds made by the other man.
When it was dark, I quietly got into my canoe and traveled to the
far shore near a town. I was very hungry and looked for a place to get
some food. Suddenly, I heard the sounds made by many horses. The
sounds came nearer, and I could hear men talking.
“We’ll stop here. The horses are very tired. We can continue our
search in the morning. We’re sure to find him.”
I didn’t wait. I ran quietly to my canoe and returned to the island.
No place was safe. I tried to sleep in the canoe, but I didn’t sleep much.
After a few hours, I said to myself, “You can’t live this way. You have
to find the other person living on this island.”
Having decided to do this, I felt better immediately. I rowed the
canoe close to shore, staying in the shadows made by the tree branches
that grew out over the water. The moon was shining brightly, and
outside the shadows it was nearly as light as day. I rowed quietly for an
hour. Nothing else moved except the river current. When I reached
the end of the island, I came ashore. I carried my gun out of the canoe
and walked through the trees overhead. The moon was gone from the
sky now, and the sun would soon appear. I took my gun and walked
quietly toward the place where I had seen the campfire. A fire was
burning. I approached it slowly.
There lay a man on the ground. He was wrapped in a blanket
with his head toward the fire. I sat behind some bushes and watched
him. The day was getting brighter, and the man slowly sat up. He
stretched his arms, and his blanket fell to the ground. The man was
Miss Watson’s black slave, Jim!
“Hello, Jim. Am I glad to see you!” I shouted.
Jim jumped up and stared at me wildly. Then he dropped down
on his knees and put his hands together and said, “Don’t hurt me—
don’t! I’ve never done you harm. I’ve always liked ghosts and did what I could for them. Get back into the river where you belong.”
I quickly made him understand that I was not a ghost and I was
not dead. I was very happy to see Jim. I wasn’t lonely now. I talked for
a long time, but Jim sat quietly. He never said a word.
“I’ll cook our breakfast. Add more wood to your fire. We’ll need
a large fire for cooking.”
“What will we cook? All I’ve been eating are some of the fruit
that grows on the island. Fruit doesn’t have to be cooked.”
“How long have you been on the island, Jim?”
“I came here the night your Pap said that you were murdered.”
“You’ve been here that long time and have eaten only fruit? You
must be starved.”
“I’m hungry. What have you been eating?”
“I have a gun and have been shooting small animals for food. I’ll
get my supplies from my canoe now, while you put more wood on the
fire.”
After eating a large breakfast, Jim turned to me and asked, “Who
was murdered in that cabin, and why did your Pap think that you were
dead?”
I told Jim the whole story, and he said that I was very clever, that
even Tom Sawyer could not have thought of a better plan.
Then I asked, “How do you happen to be here, Jim?”
Jim looked unhappy and said nothing for a moment. “Maybe I
shouldn’t say.”
“Why, Jim?”
“I have my reasons. Promise that you won’t tell anyone.”
“You know I won’t tell, Jim.”
“I believe you, Huck. I ran away.”
“Jim!”
“Remember, Huck. You promised not to tell.”
“I won’t tell, Jim. People will call me an Abolitionist and will
hate me for not telling, but I don’t mind. I’ll never return to St.
Petersburg again, anyway. Tell me why you ran away.”
“You know I belong to Miss Watson. She didn’t always treat me well, but she promised that she would never sell me down the river to
New Orleans. The city of New Orleans is as close to hell as a black slave
can get on this earth. Last week, I saw a slave trader talking to Miss
Watson. This made me feel uneasy. One night, I listened at an open
door as Miss Watson was talking to the Widow Douglas. I heard her say
she was planning to sell me for 800 dollars and that I would be sent
down the river to New Orleans. She said that she hated to do this, but
that 800 dollars was a lot of money and she needed money. As soon as
I heard this, I started to run. I hid in town all day. I heard people talking about how you were murdered, and I saw them leave in a boat to
search for your body. When it was dark, I jumped into the river and
swam to this island.”
“And you’ve had almost nothing to eat until I found you.”
“I couldn’t look for food along the shore because someone might
see me. I’ve had to stay hidden in the bushes during the day, and all I
could find there was fruit.”I WANTED TO EXPLORE THE MIDDLE OF THE ISLAND WHERE I HAD SEEN
a high hill. Jim and I had a difficult time climbing to the top of the hill
because it was covered with bushes growing close together. Near the
top, we found a cave in the rocks. It was as big as two or three rooms,
and Jim could stand up straight in it. Jim suggested that we hide the
canoe and carry the supplies up to this cave. If anyone were to come to
the island to search for him, they would never find him in the cave.
Also, when it rained, our supplies would stay dry.
After we moved our supplies to the cave and built a fire, we
cooked supper. Then the sky got dark, and it began to thunder and
lightning. The rain poured, and I never saw the wind blow so hard. It
got very dark and looked blue-black outside. It rained so hard that we
could barely see the trees. The wind bent the trees until they nearly
touched the ground. And when the night was at its darkest—fst!—it
was as bright as day. The lightning gave us a quick view of the treetops
bending in the storm. Suddenly, it was dark again, and we heard the
thunder crash, and then roll across the sky. “Jim, this is nice,” I said. “I don’t want to be anywhere but here
in this cave with you.”
The big storm caused the river to rise. The next day, we saw that
the low places on the island were flooded. As we looked across the river
to the far shore, we saw that parts of the land there were flooded, too.
We watched many trees and logs float down the river. And one
lucky night we caught a section of a log raft—a very nice raft 12 feet
wide and 16 feet long, with a solid, level floor.
Another night, just before sunrise, we saw a complete house float
down the river. We rowed out to the house and climbed in through the
window. We could see a bed, a table, and two old chairs, and clothes
hanging against the wall. There was something lying on the floor in
the far corner that looked like a man.
Jim called, “Hello!” But the man didn’t move.
“He can’t be asleep. He must be dead!”
Jim went to check. “You’re right. He’s dead. He’s been shot in the
back. He’s been dead two or three days. Don’t look at his face, Huck.
It’s awful.”
I didn’t look at him, but I threw some old clothes to Jim to use to
cover the body. Then I looked around the room. There were two dirty
dresses and a woman’s hat and some men’s clothing, too. We took everything of value we could find—candles, a cup, a blanket, an ax, some
nails, and a few other supplies, but most of the things were torn and
quite dirty.
When we left the floating house, it was already daylight. I made
Jim lie down in the canoe and cover himself with the blanket. If he
were to sit up in the canoe, someone might notice that he was black
and come to get him. However, I rowed all the way back to the island
without seeing anyone at all. THE FOLLOWING DAY I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT THE DEAD MAN AND
why he was murdered, but Jim refused. He said that talking about the
murder would cause bad luck. I said no more about this, but continued
to think about the dead man and wished that I knew who had shot him
and why.
I searched through the pockets of the old clothes we had taken
from the floating house and found eight silver dollars in an old coat. I
showed the money to Jim and said, “You’re always talking about bad
luck. When I showed you the snakeskin I found yesterday, you said that
touching a snakeskin would bring me the worst bad luck in the world.
Do you call this bad luck? We found all those clothes and other supplies in that old house, and now we have eight silver dollars. I wish that
we had this kind of bad luck every day.”
“Don’t make a joke about bad luck, Huck. It’s coming. Listen to
me. Bad luck is coming.”
It did come, too. Four days later, we were resting on the grass after
eating a large meal. I went into the cave to get some tobacco and found
a large, poisonous snake. I killed it and placed it on Jim’s blanket in such a way that the snake appeared to be alive. I thought that this would be
a funny trick to play on Jim and was waiting to see him jump with fear
when he saw the snake.
When it grew dark, and we returned to the cave to sleep, I had
forgotten about the dead snake. While I was lighting a candle, Jim lay
down on his blanket and suddenly screamed. He was bitten by a live
snake! He wasn’t wearing shoes and was bitten on his foot. I felt like a
fool. I had forgotten that whenever you kill a snake, a second snake
will come and curl around it.
Jim told me to cut off the snake’s head and throw it away. Then
he told me to remove the snake’s skin and cook a piece of its body. I
did that, and Jim ate what I had cooked. He said that this would cure
him. I carried both snakes out of the cave and threw them as far as I
could into the bushes. I didn’t want Jim to see two dead snakes and to
discover the trick that I had played on him.
Jim became very, very sick. I thought that he was going to die. The
snake’s poison caused his foot and leg to swell to twice their normal
size. We had found some whiskey in the floating house, and I gave that
to Jim to drink. He was too drunk to notice the pain in his leg.
After four days and four nights, the swelling in Jim’s leg began to
grow smaller. He felt less pain and was able to walk again. I made a
promise to myself that I would never again touch a snakeskin. All Jim
said to me was that he hoped that I would now believe him when he
spoke to me about bad luck.
When Jim was no longer sick and I didn’t have to care for him, I
began to get bored. I was curious about what was happening in St.
Petersburg. What were they talking about? Did people continue to talk
about me? I told Jim that I wanted to return to the town for a day or two.
Jim liked the idea, but said that I would have to go when it was
dark and that I had to be careful. He said that no one would recognize
me if I dressed like a girl, and I agreed. I rolled up my trousers and put
on a girl’s dress and hat that we had found in the floating house. All
day I practiced acting like a girl until I could do it quite well.
When it grew dark, I went in the canoe to the shore near the far end of town. I saw a light in a small cabin that had been empty for years.
I looked in the window and saw a woman that I did not know. She was
a stranger in this town, which was lucky for me. I began to worry that
people who knew me would recognize me even though I was dressed like
a girl. I decided that this woman would be able to tell me all I wanted
to know about what was being said in the town.
I knocked on the door and tried to remember that I was a girl. “COME IN,” SAID THE WOMAN, AND I DID. “SIT DOWN.”
I sat in a chair, while she looked at me with shiny eyes and said,
“What’s your name?”
“Sarah Williams.”
“Where do you live? In this town?”
“No, I live in Hookerville, seven miles down the river. I’ve walked
from there and I’m tired. My mother’s sick and has no money, and I’ve
come to tell my uncle Abner Moore. He lives in this town, but I’ve
never visited him. Do you know him?”
“No, but I don’t know everyone yet. I’ve lived here only two
weeks. It’s dark outside now, and your uncle must live in the other end
of the town, since I know the people who live nearby. I don’t think
that it will be safe for you to look for your uncle’s house in the dark.
My husband will be home soon, and he can help you.”
“I won’t need help. I’m not afraid of the dark.”
“Then you must not have heard about the murder.” And she told
me all about how Huck Finn had been killed and his murderer had not
been caught. “Who do people think did the killing?” I asked.
“Most people thought his Pap murdered him—at least that’s what
they thought at first. But then they changed their minds. Now they say
that he was murdered by a runaway slave named Jim. He ran away the
very night that Huck Finn was killed. A large reward—300 dollars—
will be paid to anyone who catches Jim. A reward of 200 dollars will be
paid to anyone who finds Huck’s father. He had come to town the morning after the murder and told about it. Then he went out on a boat with
many others to search for Huck’s body. The next day he went to Judge
Thatcher to get some of Huck’s money. He said that he needed the
money to search for Jim. The last time he was seen he was very drunk
and walking with two strangers. No one has heard from him since then.
Some people think that he killed Huck for the money and that he’ll
return in a few weeks and demand what’s left of the 6,000 dollars from
Judge Thatcher.”
“Why are they searching for Jim?”
“Because of the 300 dollars! That’s a lot of money. Some people
think that Jim hasn’t gone very far. I was asking some neighbors about
Jackson’s Island out in the river. They told me that no one lives there.
Yet I know that I saw smoke from a campfire on the island two or three
times recently. I think that’s where Jim is hiding. I spoke to my husband about the smoke, and he’s going over to Jackson’s Island to search
for Jim.”
I became so worried that I couldn’t sit still and had to do something with my hands. I took a needle off a table and began to thread it.
My hands were shaking, and I had trouble threading the needle. The
woman stopped talking and stared at me. I quickly put down the needle
and thread and said, “Three hundred dollars is a lot of money. I wish that
my mother could get it. Is your husband going to the island tonight?”
“Oh, yes. He went to get a friend to go with him. They want to
borrow a boat and another gun. They’ll leave tonight.”
“They could see better if they waited until daylight.”
“Yes, and Jim will be able to see better, too. After midnight, he’ll
be asleep. They can find his campfire easily in the dark.”“I didn’t think of that.”
The woman looked at me in a curious way, and I felt very uncomfortable. Next she asked me, “What did you say your name was?”
“M Mary Williams.”
I was afraid to look at the woman’s face. Had I said Mary before
or had I said Sarah?
“Dear, I thought you said that your name was Sarah when you
first came into the house.”
“Oh, I did. My name is Sarah Mary Williams. Some people call
me Sarah, and some call me Mary.”
“Is that the truth?”
“Ya Yes.” I was feeling a little better, but I wished I could
leave.
The woman quickly changed the subject and started telling me
about the problems caused by rats in their house. I could see a rat stick
out its nose out of a hole as she talked. She kept some rocks on a table
to throw rocks at the rats. She asked me to do it for her. I threw one
rock and hit the rat’s hole but the rat had disappeared.
“Watch for other rats. Here’s another rock to throw when you see
one.” And she dropped the rock into the skirt of my dress. I quickly
brought my legs together to catch the rock.
After a few minutes, the woman looked straight into my face and
said, “Tell me. What’s your real name? Who are you?”
“Wh What?”
“What’s your real name? Is it Bill or Tom or Bob What is it?”
I was shaking like a tree in the wind. I thought a moment before
I spoke. “Please, don’t joke with me. I’m a poor girl. If I’m causing you
a problem, I’ll leave.”
“No, you won’t. Sit down and stay where you are. I’m not going to
hurt you. Just tell me your secret. I won’t tell anyone. Trust me. I’ll help
you. My husband will help you, too. Tell me the truth now, like a good
boy.”
I could see that she was not fooled by the girl’s dress that I was
wearing. I told her that I would speak the truth but that she must keep her promise not to tell anyone my secret. I told her that my mother and
father were dead, and that I was forced to work for a mean farmer who
lived about 30 miles from the river. He beat me and treated me in
a bad way and I knew that I had to run away from him. He was going
to be away from his farm for a few days, and I knew that this was the
time to leave. I stole a dress and hat from his daughter, so that no one
would recognize me on the road. I believed that my uncle, Abner
Moore, would take care of me, which is why I came to this town of
Goshen to search for him.
“Goshen? Do you think that this is the town Goshen? This is St.
Petersburg. Goshen is ten miles further up the river.”
“Well, if this is St. Petersburg, then I must leave. By walking
quickly, I should get to Goshen in the morning.”
“Wait. I’ll give you some food to take with you. Before you leave,
tell me your real name.”
“George Peters.”
“Remember that name, George. Don’t tell me later that it is
Alexander, and then that it is George Alexander. And don’t try to be
a girl again. You might fool a man, but you’ll never fool a woman. When
you thread a needle, don’t hold the thread still and bring the needle to
it. That’s the way a man does. A woman always holds the needle still
and brings the thread to it. And when you throw a rock at a rat, don’t
do it in a skillful manner. And be sure to miss the rat’s hole by five or
six feet. And when a girl tries to catch something in the skirt of her
dress, she throws her knees apart. She doesn’t bring them together. I
realized that you were probably a boy when I watched you thread the
needle. I asked you to do the other things as a kind of test. If you ever
need a friend, remember me—Mrs. Judith Loftus.”
I left quickly and quietly returned to my canoe, which was some
distance from the woman’s small cabin. I went as fast as I could to the
island. First, I ran to my old camping place and started a large fire. Then
I ran to the cave and awakened Jim. “Hurry. We have no time to waste.
They’re after us!”
Jim asked no questions; he said not a word. We loaded all our supplies onto the raft that we had found a few weeks before. We worked
in the dark. Thirty minutes after I reached the cave, we were ready to
leave. Jim was on the raft with the supplies, while I rowed the canoe. We
stayed close to the island as we traveled, protected by the tree branches
that grew out over the water. We soon passed the end of the island and
were out in the open river and neither of us had spoken a word.



































